Over the last several years, the U.S. branch and World Headquarters has had the responsibility
of constructing several new buildings.
Nine of these buildings were awarded a four green globes rating, which is the highest
green globe certification possible.
The two at Wacill were the office building and F-residence.
The seven at the New War Complex were the four residence buildings, the maintenance
building, office and services building, and vehicle maintenance building.
Now a good number of you may be asking right about now, what exactly is this green globes
program?
Well, it is a program which assesses the eco-friendliness of a building starting from design through
construction.
An independent third party assesses the environmental impact of a completed building on a scale
of one to four globes.
The organization that coordinates the program stated that a four green globes rating that
demonstrates national leadership and excellence in the practice of water, energy and environmental
efficiency to reduce environmental impact.
The organization that coordinates the green globes program drew our attention to how significant
and accomplishment receiving this award is by mentioning that only 4% of properties
that apply are able to achieve the top rating for even one of their buildings.
In spite of this, on September 14, 2016, the Warwick project was simultaneously awarded
seven of these four green globes for all buildings that qualified for consideration.
Now understanding the significance of this award, you probably feel a measure of pride
and satisfaction with this milestone.
Another question you may have is, how does this environmental design at Warwick and
Wachill benefit the organization?
Well since Revelation chapter 11 verse 18 points out that it is Jehovah that will ultimately
need to step in to save our Earth from ruin, the intent is not to join some sustainable
design fad or try to do what only Jehovah can do.
This means that we don't design simply to be green as many in the world would, rather
we saw four noteworthy benefits from this level of design.
First and foremost, Jehovah's name is glorified.
It often happens that during the design phase of a project, claims are made as to the
anticipated environmental impact of a building design, however the final outcome after construction
often falls short of what is promise, which can leave officials quite frustrated.
With Warwick, we modestly made known our goal to the local officials and community that
we would strive to achieve three of four green globes.
In contrast, this award confirms that Jehovah's Witnesses have kept our word by achieving
not three but four green globes.
Having our word has brought honor to Jehovah and built a trustworthy reputation in the community.
And that leads to our second benefit.
This top environmental rating confirms that we as an organization respect Jehovah's creation.
Being known as responsible stewards of the environment allows us to have many benefits,
one of which is in the case of Warkill.
Our reputation made it easier to gain approvals to expand our facilities there.
A third benefit is to our neighbors in the surrounding community.
For example, the drinking water in the adjoining lake is not contaminated.
Our site lighting doesn't light the night sky.
The use of native plants serves to protect the health of the beautiful surrounding
forest that we all enjoy.
And the design and location of the buildings on site preserve the spectacular views from
the adjoining forest trails.
Yet a fourth benefit to the organization is that this level of design makes the best use
of donated funds.
While experts vary on the exact percentages over the lifetime of a typical building, operational
and maintenance costs can be four to six times the initial construction costs.
So the more efficient the design and construction, the more long-term savings are realized for
the organization.
For instance, an independent energy consultant recently calculated that we could expect
to see savings of over one million dollars annually from the energy efficiency measures
incorporated into our project as compared to a standard construction of similar facilities.
But you may be curious as to what energy and environmental features were incorporated
into the Warwick project to earn these awards and save funds.
These features covered multiple aspects of design.
They basically fall into five categories – landscaping, rainwater control, lighting
control, energy efficiency, and water usage.
With respect to the first category, landscaping, a control system checks rainfall and local
weather conditions to determine how much water is needed in each irrigation zone.
And drought-resistant native plants and trees also reduce water needs.
The second category is rainwater control.
All rainwater from the roof and building surfaces is treated with green roofs, buyer retention
areas, permeable concrete paving, underground sand filters, and stormwater planters.
And a third category is lighting control.
Lighting sensors and perimeter window spaces are linked to a control system that balance
natural lighting with fluorescent lighting while still permitting the occupant control
as desired.
The fourth category is energy efficiency.
High efficiency HVAC equipment, boilers, and chillers were incorporated.
A geothermal well feel, consisting of some 120 wells, takes advantage of renewable
energy to supplement building heating and cooling needs.
And with respect to our fifth category, water usage, water is conserved in all the buildings
by means of plumbing fixtures that use lower volumes of water.
As we stated earlier, the operation and maintenance expense is the greatest part of a building's
total cost.
To the extent that we practice water, lighting, and energy conservation in our individual
rooms and workplaces, to that extent we can have a personal share in realizing the full
benefit, potential, and purpose of these new facilities at Wacul and Worry.
And what knit together all of these features, making the awards possible though, were the
people.
This was only because of the close cooperation and tireless efforts of the thousands who
worked in various areas such as design, purchasing, and construction.
It truly was a strong testimony to the power of unity.
Certainly, Jehovah's heart is filled with joy, as he sees all the fine work that has
been accomplished and the glory that it's brought, and will continue to bring to his name.